# Python Loops and Arrays

## For Loops

Loops allow you to repeat a block of code multiple times. If we want to print the numbers 1 through 10, we can do this:

```python
print 0
print 2
print 3
print 4
...
print 10
```
or this:

```python
for i in xrange(11):
  print i
```

they will both return:
```
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
```

### Syntax

This is the syntax for a basic for loop:
```python

for i in xrange(x):
  # do something
```


The keyword 'for' lets python know that you want to use a for loop.
The variable 'i' represents your iteration
xrange(x) generates a list from 0 up to but not including x. xrange(10) will give you back numbers 0-9.
End your for loops statement with a colon, and write the code that you want repeated in the block immediatley below.

```python
for i in xrange(10):
  print i
```

The above statement uses the for statement to let python know that you want to use a for loop. 'i' holds your iteration, which are all the numbers generated by xrange(10). Every time the for loop executes the code within its block, i updates to the next number in xrange(10).

**Iterations starting from a number other than 0**

You can also start iterating from a number other than 0. 
Syntax:
```python
for i in xrange(x,y):
  # do something
```

Everything is the same except xrange takes an extra parameter. xrange(x,y) will generate all the numbers from x to y, not including y.
The following two code blocks are functionally the same:

```python
for i in xrange(3,10):
  print i
```

```python
for i in xrange(0,7):
  print i + 3
```

**Stepping**

xrange can take a third parameter that allows you to "step" or skip by a constant.
Syntax:
```python
for i in xrange(x,y,z):
  print i
```

Everything it the same except for the third parameter in xrange, 'z'. This parameter tells xrange to generate a list of numbers from x to y (not including y) for every z'th number.

For example:
```python
for i in xrange(0,10,2):
  print i
```
will print

```
0
2
4
6
8
```
and is equivalent to

```python
for i in xrange(0,5):
  print i*2
```

the regular for loop is technically
```python
for i in xrange(x,y,1):
  #pass
```
where 'i' iterates from x to y using the step of '1'.

**Backwards Iteration**
Using the above logic, you can iterate through a list backwards. That is, variable i will start at a large number and end at a smaller number.

```python
for i in xrange(10,0,-1):
  print i
```

Will produce
```
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
```

**Backwards Iteration with Skipping**
We can iterate backwards with skips.

```python
for i in xrange(10,0,-2):
  print i
```
will produce

```
10
8
6
4
2
``














